Introduction

My name is Ajay. I am currently working as a full-stack developer with Bloomberg. I have 10 years of total experience in enterprise application development,testing, maintenance, and product deployment. Being a full-stack developer, I have worked on different domains like banking, finance,Health etc. My expertise mainly lies in backend work with micro-services and monolithic architecture, where I use Java with different frameworks like Spring, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud and write APIs using REST and SOAP. I also worked on developing frontend applications using HTML, CSS,Tpescript and Javascript, along with frameworks like Angular and React. I also worked on databases like MySQL, Oracle, and MongoDB. Throughout my career, I have used various technologies like Docker, Kubernetes,Jenkins, GIT, and the latest CI/CD tools for deployment purposes. All major AWS services are used for infrastructure setup and deployment operations. I am experienced in Agile approaches, and I effectively manage projects and maintain version control using tools like Git and Jira. I also use Swagger for documentation purposes.



Recent Project

In my recent project at Bloomberg L.P., I was part of a team responsible for developing an innovative financial data analysis platform. The goal of the project was to enhance the user experience and provide more comprehensive insights for our clients. As a software engineer, my role involved collaborating with cross-functional teams to design and implement new features, optimize existing functionalities, and ensure the overall performance and reliability of the platform. I actively participated in the full software development lifecycle, from requirements gathering and design to testing and deployment. Throughout the project, I leveraged my skills in programming languages such as Java with Spring Boot using a microservice architecture. We created restful APIs, and we did the necessary manipulations to the APIs. We send data as JSON. Coming to the front, we used React as a front-end technology to develop a web app or single-page application. We consume API responses from the backend and update the UI, respectively. For routing, we use React Router, for state management, we use Redux, and for the UI, we use MaterialUI. We use both SQL and NoSQL databases for storing and retrieving data. We used Docker to contain the project, used Git and Jenkins for CI/CD, and deployed the project to AWS.
